THE BESTMAN SPEECH 

Good afternoon everyone.

On behalf of the newly weds I would like to thank everyone for being here and celebrating this joyous event today.

I would also like to thank the parents of Nors and Ai-chan, Mr & Mrs. Salunga, and Mr. & Mrs Kobayashi for raising such wonderful and loving persons. Maraming maraming salamat po. Kokoro no soko kara kanshashitte iru.

For those of you who don’t know me, I am Emmanuel Rosales. Many of you know me as Nouie. And both Nors and Ai-chan are very dear friends of mine.

When the couple asked me to give this toast speech I was initially hesitant because I was thinking that I was not even half worthy to give this speech. Who am I to give honor to this wonderful couple on their special day.

But then I realised that this is a privilege that comes only once and if I don’t take it I will regret it and haunt me for the rest of my life. 

For those of you who know me, I met Norman first before I met Ai-chan. 

Nors and I worked together in one of the though projects in our company in the early 2000. He was still 50 pounds heavier at that time than he is now and wears big clothes and chubby cheeks. 

He was the guy who is very hard working and also one of our manager, mam Genny’s go-to guys when it comes to fixing issues in that project. He would work very late in order to fix issues reported by our Japanese counterparts and then would come in early the following day just to make sure that if there were additional clarifications from our customer he will be there, ready to investigate and resolve those issues.

After that, he was assigned to work in Japan and there he met Ai-chan.

The bride looks gorgeous and beautiful today. 

I know Ai-chan will react and say "of course not! I am  gorgeous and beautiful everyday!"
So the correct statement should be she looks extra gorgeous and extra beautiful today.

I first met Ai-chan around 2010 in another challenging project in our company. She was assigned here in the Philippines for about 6 months and occasionally had long business trips.  There I grew familiar with Ai-chan and shared many laughter, tears and jumping jacks inside the office whenever our overtime work reaches 12 midnight.

Over the years, I got to know them better and grew close to them. And for those who are close to the couple, you would know that they are both very competitive persons and are often times have very strong conviction or disposition (specially ai-chan). 

Their competitive nature can, for example, be seen in Sports or in games. 
For those of you who have seen Nors play badminton can attest to that. 

And Ai-chan was able to surpass my level 34 in HayDay game in just few weeks while I worked for it for months. And for those of you who are playing HayDay you know that it’s not very easy to reach level 34 in just a matter weeks. That’s how competitive they are.

When the 2 got serious with their relationship, I got a bit concerned. I was thinking, how can these 2 highly competitive persons from totally different culture share a life together. 

But to my surprise, they just clicked. Not only do they complement each other, they make a perfect synergy. And I have been a witness to their perfect chemistry from our simple drinking sessions together to spontaneous or unplanned out-of-town vacations.
 
Nors and Ai-chan are a living example that love really conquers all!

So I would like to ask to all of you to join me in a toast to Nors and Ai-chan.

I would like to raise a massive toast to the two of the most beautiful wonderful and loving people I’ve ever had the pleasure to have in my life.
 
To both of you who are starting out on a wonderful adventure today. Your marriage ahead of you will be filled with exciting possibilities and wonderful opportunities. 
It is with great pleasure that I say congratulations. And may you have many years of immense love and happiness. We all wish you the best life that marriage has to offer. 

To Nors and Ai-chan, Congratulations!

Mabuhay and Kampai!


High school pre. June 15, 2000